Kamala Harris: (00:33)
Are you ready? Joe’s here. Jill’s here. Doug’s here. You are here. We are here. And we are here to bring this election home,

Kamala Harris: (00:53)
But we got one more day. That is it. One more day. And I’ll tell you, Joe and I are just so grateful, so grateful for your support; for your prayers; for your love; for your time volunteering, making calls; for your trust in us and for your vote. And as we head into tomorrow, I know we are empowered. We are optimistic about our future. We know the strength of unity. We know the strength of America.

Kamala Harris: (01:51)
You know, when Joe asked me to join this ticket, saying yes was an easy decision. He and I, we come from different backgrounds, but we were raised with the same values: hard work, honesty, decency, a belief that we all have a responsibility to look out for one another. And those are the values I’ve seen as I’ve traveled across our country over the past 84 days, the values we share as Americans.

Kamala Harris: (02:26)
Across our country, you can feel that something is happening. In big cities and small towns, wearing masks and socially distancing, I have seen people lining the streets and gathering on corners to show their support. They’re bringing the children, holding up signs, wearing their colors and strolling to the polls. And waving the red, white, and blue.

Kamala Harris: (03:07)
The energy out there is real, and it is inspiring. In this battle for the very soul of our nation, we have seen what can be, unburdened by what has been. We have seen who we are and a willingness to fight for the country we love. And that is why I know that tomorrow, we are going to elect Joe Biden, the next main.President of the United States of America.

Kamala Harris: (03:57)
So while we’re on the subject, tell me how many of you have already voted. Honk if you voted. And if you haven’t voted, go to iwillvote.com, and find out when and where you can vote tomorrow, because there is still almost 24 hours that we have got to get this done. And honk if you have been sending texts and making calls to get out the vote. Because we all know from the time the polls open tomorrow morning until they close, every minute counts. So, we cannot let up because it ain’t over until it’s over, and everything is at stake. Our health, our economy, our children’s futures, a woman’s right to make decisions about her own body, a criminal justice system that treats all people with dignity and equally under the law, a Supreme Court that advances the legacy of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, that lives up to the phrase above its entrance, “Equal justice under law.”

Kamala Harris: (05:40)
The kind of country we want to be. That’s what’s at stake. It is all on the line. This is the most consequential election of our lifetimes, and the decision we make will, without any question, last for generations.

Kamala Harris: (06:02)
And I’ll tell you, as I travel around, one of the biggest issues on everyone’s mind is the pandemic that is ravaging our country. And remember, back in January, Donald Trump knew just how bad the coronavirus was, that it was deadly and airborne. But what did he do with that information? He looks straight into the cameras at the American people and lied about it. He covered it up.

Kamala Harris: (06:38)
Now, can you imagine what you would have done if you had known on January 28th, what he knew? What you might have done? What your family might’ve done to prepare? Can you imagine how our businesses, how our schools might have been able to prepare? How we as a country might have been able to prepare?

Kamala Harris: (07:08)
But Donald Trump doesn’t think about what’s best for America. He only thinks about what is best for himself. And as a result, we have lost 230000 lives to COVID, so many people forced to die alone because of the nature of this virus. 230000 Americans. The last time we experienced loss like this was World War II.

Kamala Harris: (07:41)
In addition, we’re looking at over 9 million people who have contracted the virus, and we know it’s hitting communities of color the hardest. Latinos are contracting COVID at three times the rate of others. Black folks are dying at twice the rate of others.

Kamala Harris: (07:56)
And let’s be clear, we are also in the worst economic crisis we have faced since the Great Depression, because Donald Trump failed to contain this virus. He failed to lead. 23 million people are receiving unemployment. One in five mothers with a child under the age of 12 is describing her children as being hungry in America. In one in six households, folks are behind on their rent and concerned they may not be able to pay rent. One in four small businesses have closed.

Kamala Harris: (08:39)
And yet, nine months into this pandemic, this president still doesn’t have a plan to contain it. We have witnessed the greatest failure of a presidential administration in America’s history. On top of it all, main.President Trump is in court right now, trying to end the Affordable Care Act and take health coverage away from over 20 million Americans. He’s trying to end protections for the over 100 million Americans with preexisting conditions, conditions like asthma, diabetes, high blood pressure or cancer. Honk if you know somebody, raise your hand if you know somebody with diabetes or high blood pressure or asthma or breast cancer. Because this fight includes a fight for them.

Kamala Harris: (09:46)
America, we cannot afford four more years of Donald Trump. And the first thing Joe and I will do when we are in the white house is get this virus under control. We will listen to the scientists and public health experts. We will provide free testing and treatment, and when it is available, a safe vaccine for all. We will provide schools with the guidance and resources they need to reopen safely, and we will build back an economy that actually works for working people.

Kamala Harris: (10:38)
Let me be clear, Joe and I will not increase taxes on anyone making under $400,000 a year, period. But we will ask the super wealthy and biggest corporations to pay their fair share, and we will invest those tax dollars to rebuild our nation’s infrastructure, to tackle the climate crisis and create millions of good paying union jobs, make childcare more affordable and invest in our nation’s schools and in our nation’s teachers. We will build on Obamacare and expand access to health care to tens of millions of Americans, including expanding mental health care. Because we understand the body doesn’t just start from the neck down. It includes the neck up, and it deserves the health that all people need.

Kamala Harris: (11:59)
And we will lower prescription drug costs, and protect and expand Medicare and Social Security. And we will work to root out the systemic racism that still exists in our criminal justice system. And we will confront, not condone, white supremacy, and fight for economic justice, no matter your zip code or your race.

Kamala Harris: (12:40)
And Pennsylvania, we will begin the work of healing and repairing and uniting our nation, Democrats and Republicans and Independents, and people of all races and all backgrounds. Because we know that’s how we’ve always overcome our greatest challenges, together.

Kamala Harris: (13:10)
And Joe gets that. Joe understands that. You see, Joe is a leader who understands what the American people are going through. He sees us and he understands suffering because he has experienced so much of it himself. Joe Biden is a leader of both strength and empathy, toughness and humility. He understands that the measure of a person’s strength is not based on who you put down. It’s measured based on who you lift up.

Kamala Harris: (13:56)
And he knows that no matter where we come from or where we live, no matter your race, gender, background or faith, no matter how we identify or who we love, no matter the language your grandmother speaks, what we have in common is so much stronger than what divides us. And that is the kind of leader America needs right now, and that is why, Pennsylvania, we must win this election.

Kamala Harris: (14:43)
So remember this, your vote is your voice and your voice is your power. Don’t let anyone ever take your power from you. Now is the time to stand up. Now is the time to speak out, and now is the time to vote, and vote like our lives depend on it because they do.

Kamala Harris: (15:26)
Our democracy is always going to be as strong. America, our democracy is always going to be as strong as our willingness to fight for it. And in this election, let’s vote like our democracy depends on it. Vote like justice, equality and opportunity, decency, character and dignity are on the ballot because they are.

Kamala Harris: (15:55)
And one day, one day, our children and our grandchildren and others, they will look us in the eye, each one of us, and they will ask us, “What did you do at that moment?” And I want to be able to say, “We did everything we could to fight for our country and their future.”

Kamala Harris: (16:19)
So, let’s do that. Let’s vote, and vote with conviction and confidence and hope. And let’s elect Joe Biden, the next main.President of the United States. Thank you. May God bless you, and may God bless America.

Speaker 1: (17:00)
( singing)

Speaker 2: (17:15)
(singing)

Joe Biden: (17:17)
Please welcome back to the stage, Lady Gaga.

Lady Gaga: (17:23)
Everybody, listen, we can’t celebrate just yet because I need everybody to vote. Are you going to vote? Come on, scream. I want you to scream for America. Come on, put your hands in the air. Come on, everybody, right now. Ready? Is this America? Who loves Joe? Who loves Kamala? All right. Since we’re clear on who we love.

Lady Gaga: (18:06)
I know. It’s cold out. You all came out in the cold. But you know what? Tonight, I’m taking my gloves off. Gloves off because it’s a fight. It’s a fight for what you believe in. This is a fight for what you stand for. You know what? This is not political. This is not red or blue. This is about people. This is about heart. I know people in Pennsylvania. I used to live here. Joe’s from here. You got a lot of heart. This is not a shallow people. I’m going to sing this song, hoping that this whole state can hear me. Pennsylvania, I’m going to sing so loud.

Lady Gaga: (20:43)
(singing) I’d like to sing this to everybody else, because you know what? No matter who wins tomorrow, we’re going to have to do this together. Tomorrow’s got to be peaceful.

Lady Gaga: (21:18)
( singing)

Lady Gaga: (21:19)
Scream real loud if you’re going to vote tomorrow. Come on.

Lady Gaga: (21:35)
(singing)

Lady Gaga: (21:39)
Do you know this one? You want to sing it with me right here? Who’s off the deep end? Who’s off the deep end that Joe Biden needs to be president of this country? Are you ready? Come on, put your hands up. Ready? Let’s sing it. One, two, three, four.

Lady Gaga: (21:52)
(singing)

Lady Gaga: (21:52)
Go out and vote.

Lady Gaga: (22:31)
(singing) Let’s pray that real soon, we’re going to be far from the shallow.

Lady Gaga: (22:35)
(singing)

Lady Gaga: (22:50)
I love you so much. I’m going to tell you something. Joe, I’ve known Joe for a long. I remember when I was hanging out with them one day and I was like, ” So, you’re going to run for president, right?” We had a little talk and then he did it, but I was like, “Listen, we need you,” because we needed somebody that was going to bring us all together for this moment, for this very important moment. It’s going to be very clear what this country is tomorrow. You got to go out and vote. If you know people that want to vote, get them there. Okay?

Lady Gaga: (23:33)
Now, listen. Did you all know I used to live here in Lancaster, Pennsylvania? Now, okay. Listen. Anybody here from Lancaster? Ooh hoo. Okay. Well, I was engaged to a man from Lancaster, Pennsylvania. I know, I know. It didn’t work out. I loved him so much. It just did not work out. But I still love my Pennsylvania guy. I love Joe. Joe’s my new Pennsylvania guy and I love nothing more than this moment for this time for you and I.

Lady Gaga: (24:14)
(singing)

Lady Gaga: (24:14)
I’m not leaving without your vote tonight. You know that, right?

Lady Gaga: (24:54)
(singing) Come on, put your hands up. Ready? One, two, three.

Lady Gaga: (25:13)
(singing)

Lady Gaga: (25:16)
You love this place, don’t you? Come on, cheer for it.

Lady Gaga: (25:45)
(singing)

Lady Gaga: (25:46)
You know, I put some country clothes on the other day and said I was voting for Joe, because I wear [Cabela’s 00:26:19] when I’m on a four-wheeler in Pennsylvania, and I will not be told what I can and cannot wear to endorse our future president. This is what I have to say about that. I might not always look like you, but I am you. We are each other.

Lady Gaga: (26:39)
(singing) The beautiful countryside.

Lady Gaga: (27:17)
(singing)

Lady Gaga: (27:24)
I’m not kidding. We need every single vote, and I’m going to keep saying it.

Lady Gaga: (27:29)
(singing)

Lady Gaga: (27:29)
Hands up, come on.

Lady Gaga: (27:52)
(singing) You know, to my boyfriend that’s here tonight, I’m so sorry I had to do the whole Pennsylvania and I dated a guy here thing. I love you so much, but it’s true.

Lady Gaga: (28:37)
( singing)

Lady Gaga: (28:38)
We’re counting on you all tomorrow, okay? I know the good-hearted people here, and my grandma, and my whole family’s in West Virginia next door, okay, I know what this is. This is love.

Lady Gaga: (28:51)
(singing) America, I love you. I pray for you tomorrow. Let’s win this. Pennsylvania, go blue.

Lady Gaga: (29:12)
(singing)

Lady Gaga: (29:12)
I love you so much. Put your hands up, Pennsylvania, for Joe Biden, Kamala Harris. 2020’s going to change for 2021. Let’s vote Trump out.

Speaker 2: (31:02)
( singing)

Joe Biden: (31:05)
Please welcome business agent for Laborers’ Union Local 1058, John Duffy.

Kamala Harris: (31:25)
What’s going on, Pittsburgh? Hey. Good evening, everyone. My name’s John Duffy. I’m fourth generation union strong here in Pittsburgh. I’m a business agent at Laborers’ Local 1058, where I’ve been a proud member for 11 years.

Kamala Harris: (31:54)
Four years ago, guys, main.President Trump promised Western PA he would create jobs, but today there are 300,000 fewer jobs in the state than when Barack Obama and Joe Biden left office. He campaigned in Western Pennsylvania in 2016, promising major infrastructure build, infrastructure made with American steel right here in Pittsburgh, but he never even really tried to deliver. Instead, he spent his time giving tax breaks to Wall Street and the super wealthy, while undermining unions and leaving working families behind. From the highest office in the world, he has fanned the flames of racial tension, putting the lives of so many people that looked like me in danger.

Kamala Harris: (32:40)
We cannot go on like this. We cannot stand for a president who thinks it’s fine to keep workers down, so long as the numbers on the stock market keep going up. We cannot keep waiting to hear what he will say next to deepen the racial division that is in this country. We need to stand up and elect the only candidate in this race who shares the values of working people and will empower us to succeed. That’s Joe Biden.

Kamala Harris: (33:16)
Joe understands the struggles that working communities face because Joe is one of us. He’s from Pennsylvania. Scranton’s not that far away. He grew up in a working class family. The values that Joe learned in Scranton, hard work, toughness, empathy, are the same values that he carried throughout his life as a public servant and they’re the same values that he’s going to take with him to the White House. As president, Joe’s going to help communities recover from the coronavirus and then put working people in Western PA and across this country at the center of the effort to build back a better economy. He’s going to create millions of good paying jobs and his-

Kamala Harris: (34:03)
He’s going to create millions of good-paying jobs. And as president, he will encourage unionization and collective bargaining because he knows that workers in unions, not Wall Street, built this country. Joe is going to work to ensure that all people, regardless of their race, who they love, or what they do for a living, are treated with the equal amount of dignity and respect.

Kamala Harris: (34:36)
We are now a matter of hours away, guys, from the end of this election, and the work that we do tomorrow will determine whether we put a champion for the working class people in office or we continue to be pushed around by main.President Trump. See, to me, guys, the choice is easy. So tomorrow let’s get a plan, let’s go out, and let’s vote. And let’s vote for Joe Biden. Pittsburgh, help me in welcoming the next president of the United States, Joe Biden.

Speaker 3: (35:07)
(singing)

Joe Biden: (35:07)
Whoa. Hello, Pittsburgh. I’m Jill Biden’s husband and Lady Gaga’s friend. We go back a while. One thing I wasn’t going to say, but I’ll said now, she spent a lot of time helping me with the Violence Against Women Act and helping so many women who needed help. God love you, you’re wonderful. Thank you, thank you, thank you.

Joe Biden: (36:14)
Folks. John, thanks, old buddy, for sharing your story. And thanks to Mr. Mayor. I don’t know where you are, I can’t see out here, but I’ll tell you what, thanks for the passport into town. And thanks for all the speakers we heard tonight, as well as the incredible, as I said, Lady Gaga. I don’t know whether … You couldn’t see, but all my grandkids are over there, Lady Gaga. And when you were singing, knew every word of every song. They were jumping and moving. I got to get a picture with them. Anyway.

Joe Biden: (36:49)
My buddy Congressman Mike Doyle, Governor Tom Wolf, thank you for standing with me and fighting for the dignity of working people. Everyone you’ve heard from across the state, as well as in Philadelphia, we hear you loud. We hear clearly. Congressman Boyle been with me a while. Remarkable, great friend and friend of his family. His dad and I grew up five blocks away from one another in Scranton.

Joe Biden: (37:18)
Bobby Casey, Patti LaBelle, and John Legend. My Lord, John, I’m voting for you after I heard that speech you made. Look at the second future gentleman, Doug. Doug, I love you. You are a good man. And I want to thank the next vice president of the United States, a woman I am so proud to be running alongside of, Kamala Harris.

Joe Biden: (37:46)
Look, I know as a Scranton boy and then raised on the border of Southern Pennsylvania in Claymont, Delaware, I know it’s not always easy to bring Western and Eastern Pennsylvania together. But you know what, the Steelers got a big win yesterday, and the Eagles got a big win last night, so we can both be happy. And folks, I have a feeling we’re coming together for a big win tomorrow.

Joe Biden: (38:24)
My Lord, there’s a lot of you out here on this cold night. Thank you. And by the way, in the parking garage, don’t jump. I need you. Don’t jump.

Joe Biden: (38:33)
Folks, look, 18 months ago, we kicked off the campaign at Teamsters Local 249 right here in Pittsburgh. I chose Western Pennsylvania for my first stop as a candidate, and now for my last stop before Election Day, because you represent the backbone of this country. Hard work and families. We’re asking nothing but a fair shot, an even chance. Ordinary people doing extraordinary things. The qualities that built this country, that created and sustain the middle class. And by the way, as I said twice earlier today, unions built the middle class.

Joe Biden: (39:19)
Look. We’ve been through a lot in this country since we announced. America is facing a confluence of crises unlike anything in living memory. We’re still in the battle for the soul of America. Decency, honor, respect. Where has it gone with this president? Let me tell you something, folks. Tomorrow’s the beginning of a new day. Tomorrow we can put an end to a presidency that has left hardworking Americans out in the cold. Tomorrow we can put an end to a presidency that has divided this nation and fanned the flames of hate. Tomorrow we can put an end to a presidency that has failed to protect this nation.

Joe Biden: (40:10)
Ladies and gentlemen, millions of Americans have already voted. Close to a hundred million. And millions more will vote tomorrow. And my message to you is simple: the power to change this country is in your hands. In your hands. I don’t care how hard Donald Trump tries, there’s nothing, nothing that’s going to stop the people of this nation from voting, period. And when America votes, America will be heard. And America’s heard. I believe the message to be loud and clear, it’s time for Donald Trump to pack his bags and go home. I honest to God believe the vast majority of Americans are done with the chaos, the corruption, the failure, the irresponsibility, the indifference to American lives, the indifference to America’s dignity. We’ve got a lot of work to do. Not division and distraction, but real, real, real healing of this country.

Joe Biden: (41:25)
If you elect me your president, I’m going to heal this country, and we’re going to act. We’re going to act to get COVID under control beginning on day one. I’ll put in action a plan I’ve been talking about for months. Masking, social distancing, testing, tracing. A plan for full and fair and free distribution of therapeutics and a vaccine, when it comes.

Joe Biden: (41:51)
Imagine where we could be if the president only wore a mask from the beginning instead of mocked it. I can tell you this, as every expert will tell you, we wouldn’t have 9 million COVID cases in this nation. We wouldn’t have over 230,000 deaths and nearly a hundred thousand cases nationwide just two days ago. We wouldn’t be facing another 200,000 predicted deaths in the next few months. That’s what the experts are telling us. We don’t change, 200,000 more people will die by the end of the year.

Joe Biden: (42:31)
The main.President knew in January, as Kamala said, that this virus was deadly, but he hid it from the American people. He knew it was worse than the flu, but he lied to us. He knew it wasn’t going to disappear. He kept telling us a miracle was coming, it’d be over by Easter.

Joe Biden: (42:50)
Last Friday, he had the gall to suggest that America’s doctors, who’ve been on the front lines of this crisis for nine months along with the nurses and so many other first responders, he suggested those doctors were falsely inflating the deaths due to COVID because they wanted more money. For God’s sake. No, I really mean it. Think about it. Our frontline healthcare workers, they’ve suffered and sacrificed for nine months, and this president is questioning their character, their integrity, their commitment to their fellow Americans. It’s a disgrace. And last night, Trump went on to say he was going to fire Dr. Fauci. Well, I’ve got a better idea. Let’s fire Trump, and I’ll hire Fauci.

Joe Biden: (43:43)
Think about it. Look, Donald Trump has waved the white flag of surrender. Remember he said, “I’m the commander- in-chief, and I’m going to fight this fight.” Give me a break. He waved the white flag of surrender. I’ll never surrender. We’re going to beat this virus. We’re going to get it under control. And the first step to beating this virus is beating Donald Trump.

Joe Biden: (44:22)
Folks. Well, let me tell you something. Donald Trump keeps telling us what a great jobs president he is. As we say in my faith, bless me, Father, for he has … I don’t know. Jobs president. Here’s the truth. Donald Trump is going to be the first president in 90 years, that’s a lot of presidents, the first president in 90 years to finish his term in office with fewer jobs than when he started. An independent analysis, not from some liberal think tank, but by Moody’s, a Wall Street firm, projects that my plan will create 7 million more jobs and a trillion dollars more economic growth than anything the main.President has proposed.

Joe Biden: (45:17)
Folks, we can do this. I’m going to end Trump’s tax loopholes that incentivize companies to ship jobs overseas. That’s why there’s not as many jobs here. And I’m going to add a 10% surtax on any company that ships jobs overseas. But companies who invest in American manufacturing, bring jobs back, we’ll give them a 10% tax credit.

Joe Biden: (45:47)
And by the way, president of the United States awards about over $600 billion of contracts a year because of everything from building aircraft carriers to all that we do, all the government spends. I promise you this, and it violates no trade agreement, there will be no government contracts given out on my watch that don’t make all of their products here in America. The future will be right here in America, in Pennsylvania.

Joe Biden: (46:26)
Folks, Trump sees the world from Park Avenue, from Wall street. That’s all he can see. Well, I see it from Scranton, where I grew up. I see it from Pennsylvania and Delaware. Wall Street didn’t build this country; working people built the country, the middle class built the country, and unions built the middle class.

Joe Biden: (46:55)
My dad used to have an expression. He said, “Joe, the only way you can deal with the abuse of power is with power.” Well, the only outfit that can deal with the abuse of power of corporate America are union power. That’s the only way it can be dealt with. And I warn you all, if I’m elected, you’re going to see the most pro-union president in American history sitting in the White House.

Joe Biden: (47:24)
Look. I believe we should be about rewarding work, not wealth. Under my plan, as Kamala said, if you make less than 400,000 bucks, you’re not going to pay a penny more in taxes. But finally, finally, the wealthiest among us, the biggest corporations, 91 of which of the Fortune 500 paid zero in income tax, you’re going to start paying your fair share. Why? Why should an iron worker, a firefighter, an educator, a nurse pay at a higher tax rate than the super wealthy?

Joe Biden: (48:08)
Folks, and here’s a good one, why should you be paying more than Donald Trump pays in taxes? New York Times said he paid $750 in taxes one year. And guess what. When they asked him about it a little before that, he said the reason he only paid that is because he was smart, he knew how to game the system. Well, I’m sick of the wealthy guys gaming the system. Most are willing to pay their fair share, but let me tell you …

Joe Biden: (48:55)
By the way, he loves to talk about corruption. Oh, my Lord. He loves to talk about corruption. And you found out last week, he’s the only person I’ve ever heard of has a secret bank account in China where he paid, according to the Times, 50 times more taxes in Beijing than he did in the United States. Folks, as my mother would’ve said, enough is enough is enough. Look. We’re going to act to protect healthcare as well. Trump and the Republicans for the last 10 years have been trying like the devil to eliminate the healthcare plan. By the way, because of economic policies and so many companies going out of business, 10 million Americans have already lost their healthcare.

Joe Biden: (49:54)
And now Trump and the Republicans, they jam through a Supreme Court nominee for one overwhelming reason: they wanted to destroy the Affordable Care Act. If they get their way, by the way … This is not hyperbole. By the way, guess what’s going to happen. Seven days after tomorrow, they’re going to be in the Supreme Court arguing to wipe out, root and branch, all of the Affordable Care Act. Well, you can say that again because a lot of people are hurting.

Joe Biden: (50:27)
I can remember as a kid growing up in Claymont and Wilmington in a three-bedroom house, nice house, three-bedroom, split-level home with four kids and a grandpa. The walls were thin. I can remember one night, my dad, I could hear him restless in the room next to us, talking to my mom, and asking her the next morning, “What’s the matter?” She said, “Your dad, we just lost our health insurance.” How many people you know, staring at the ceiling, wondering what in God’s name are they going to do without health insurance? How many of them? How many …

Joe Biden: (51:03)
… without health insurance, how many of them? How many of them are worried like we were when our son came home from Iraq and was lying dying? I wonder what I would have done had they been able to come in, but for Obamacare and say, “Sorry, sorry, suffer the last month in the hospital in peace without your insurance, you’ve outrun your insurance.” How many people do you know? And many of you worry about it, worry about your kids, worry about what’s happening. Well, if they get their way, 100 million Americans will lose protections for pre-existing conditions, including five million Pennsylvanians. It’s wrong. It’s wrong. Donald Trump, look, folks, being a great consumer of healthcare I feel very strongly about this. Donald Trump thinks healthcare is a privilege. I think it’s a right.

Joe Biden: (52:10)
I’ll not only restore healthcare, I’ll build on it. You can keep your private insurance if you have it, or you can choose a Medicare like option. We’re going to increase subsidies to lower your premiums and deductibles, out of pocket spending, surprise billings. How are you going to do that? Because Trump and his buddies are going to pay more taxes so you don’t have to do more. And we’re going to reduce, if it didn’t sound so strange I wouldn’t even explain, you’re going to reduce prescription drug costs by 60%. You know how? By making sure Medicare can negotiate with the insurance companies for the cost of drugs. We’re going to make sure you keep the protections for pre-existing conditions. Meanwhile, these guys are for real, unfortunately.

Joe Biden: (53:10)
Meanwhile, Trump’s announced what he’ll do if he gets re-elected with regard to social security. The actuary of social security has said if Trump were elected and gets passed what he wants it will bankrupt social security by 2023. Now, you all may think I’m making it up. But just like I said when Paul Ryan was the Speaker of the House. I said, “They’re going to cut Medicare,” and everybody looked, “No, no.” They tried to cut it by $5 billion right off the bat. Folks, these guys are serious. They’ve never fully supported these programs. I’ll protect social security, Medicare and Medicaid. You have my word on it. But folks, as we used to say in the Senate, if you excuse a point of personal privilege, there’s nothing that has made me more angry about this main.President than the way he’s spoken about those of you have served in uniform. Losers and suckers, he referred to you.

Joe Biden: (54:25)
Our son, Beau, his two children are with me tonight, he gave up his job as Attorney General to volunteer to go to Iraq for a year. He won the Bronze Star, the Speaker’s Service Medal, he came home with brain cancer. And guess what? He wasn’t a sucker. He was a patriot like all of your sons and daughters. It angers the hell out of me the way he talks about our veterans. Your parents, your grandparents, all who have served. To the best of my knowledge, he’s the first main.President of the United States who has six generals and admirals who worked in his administration who have since left and said he was unfit to be Commander-in-Chief. Folks, that’s my General Stanley McChrystal, a former commander of special operations who oversaw the Bin Laden raid, Admiral Bill McRaven, and 22 other four stars endorsed me because they know I’ll have their back.

Joe Biden: (55:45)
It’s not happened before. Trump likes to portray himself as a tough guy, the macho man. Wouldn’t you like to have a shot? Anyway, the macho man. And he says people listen to him because he’s tough around the world. When’s the last time you ever heard of a main.President of the United States literally being laughed out loud by world leaders when he spoke with United Nations? So much for listening to him. When was the last time a main.President of the United States met with the NATO leaders at the NATO Summit, other world leaders, chancellors, presidents, prime ministers, and before they realize it, they were all making fun of him as he left the room? Folks, and can you believe we have a main.President who acts like Vladimir Putin’s puppy? Putin put bounties on the heads of American soldiers in Afghanistan, where I’ve been to many times. It’s a rough area, man.

Joe Biden: (56:56)
But Trump has talked to him six times since then and he’s been frightened to say or challenge him at all. Donald Trump isn’t strong, he’s weak. This is a main.President who not only does it not understand sacrifice, doesn’t understand courage, physical courage it takes to be in uniform. Folks, we’re going to support our military. They’re the backbone and spine of this country. Folks, we have to vote to meet the challenge of climate crisis. Donald Trump calls it a hoax. I call it about our health and the ability to create millions of good paying jobs right here in Western Pennsylvania. We can combat climate change with American ingenuity and manufacturing, creating millions of new high paying union jobs. Let me be clear, I will not ban fracking in Pennsylvania. I’ll protect those jobs, period, no matter what Donald Trump says. But I tell you what, I will, I will no longer fund oil companies with subsidies, period.

Joe Biden: (58:17)
Folks, we have to restore the backbone of this country, but we also have to unify. Look, we’re going to act to deliver racial justice in America. Protesting is not burning and looting. The violence will not be tolerated. But the protests, there’s a cry for justice. The names of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake, Walter Wallace, they’re not going to be soon forgotten by me, not by anyone in this country. And they’re going to inspire a new wave of justice in America. When I met with Floyd’s family, when I went down to Texas, he has a little daughter, six years old, and I was in the room and I knelt down to talk to her. She looked at me and she said, “Mr. Vice main.President,” she said, “my daddy is going to change America. My daddy is going to change America.” Well, guess what? We also know that the American people realize we’ve got to change. We also know that justice isn’t just about criminal justice, it’s about knowing the true justice about jobs and building wealth for your families. No one should be working two jobs to stay in poverty. We need a minimum of $15 an hour minimum wage. And for people struggling, first term home buyers, they’re going to get a $15,000 tax credit from me. We’re going to provide capital for young entrepreneurs to start small businesses, provide free community college, which by the way, costs a lot of money, six billion a year. We spend about that much money giving breaks out for race horses, folks, as well as free tuition for students attending state universities if they come from families making less than 125 grand. Folks, we can do this, Pennsylvania. In 2008 and 2012, you placed your trust in me and Barack. In 2020, I’m asking you seeking your trust again. I take nothing for granted.

Joe Biden: (01:00:53)
This is a battle for the soul of America. We have to win this. We have to win this together. Bring the country together. I’m proud of the coalition this campaign has built, welcoming Democrats and Republicans and independents. I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I will govern as an American main.President. There will be no red states and blue states. There’ll be the United States of America. I promise you I’ll work as hard for those who don’t support me as those who do. That’s the job of a main.President, the duty to care for everyone, the duty to heal. That’s the main.President’s job. So please vote. If you still have your absentee ballot, get into a drop box as soon as you can or vote tomorrow in person. Just make a plan and help get out the vote. The power is in your hands, Pennsylvania.

Joe Biden: (01:02:12)
And here’s the amazing thing, here’s the amazing thing about this moment in our history, the character of the country is on the ballot. On the one hand, we’re facing the biggest threats to who we are and what we believe that we’ve seen in our lifetimes. But on the other hand, our future has never been more promising. I’ve said it many times. I’m more optimistic about America’s future today than I was when I got invited and got elected as a 29 year old kid. And here’s why, we’re in a better position than any nation in the world to lead the 21st century. Fact, our workers are three times as productive. We have the biggest economy in the world, the strongest military in the history of the world, the most innovative entrepreneurs. We’re virtually energy dependent. We have more great research universities, out of which every major new changes come, than all the rest of the world combined, literally.

Joe Biden: (01:03:23)
No nation in the world can match us. We lead by the power of our example, not just example of our power. The only thing that can tear America part is America itself. No one else can challenge us. And that’s exactly what Donald Trump has been doing from the beginning of this campaign, dividing America, tearing us apart, pitting Americans against one another based on our race, our gender, our ethnicity, our religion. It’s wrong. That’s not who we are. And folks, everybody knows who Donald Trump is. Let’s keep showing them who we are. We choose hope over fear. We choose unity over division. We choose science over fiction. And yes, we choose truth over lie after lie after lie. Folks, it’s time to stand up and take back our democracy. We can do this. We can be better than what we’ve been. We can be who we are at our best, the United States of America. God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.